Create: Tracing docs (#1516)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/apm/distributed-tracing.md

Each trace has a marker called a `trace_id` . Trace IDs are pseudorandom fixed length of alphanumeric character sequences.

By collecting traces of your users as they use your applications, you can begin to reveal some insights such as:

- Investigate and debug what occurred for a specific error event, or issue
- What conditions are causing bottlenecks or latency issues in the application
- Which endpoints or operations consume the most time.

### Trace propagation model

Referring back to our earlier example of the web application consisting of these high-level components:

- Frontend (Single-Page Application)
- Backend
- Search Service
- Cache Service

A trace propagates first from the frontend, then the backend, and later to the search or caching service. Collected spans from each component are sent back to Sentry asynchronously and independently. Instrumented spans received from one component are not forwarded to the next component.

> ## Span

Reviewer: Why don't we just link to the glossary here?

Author: Yep! That's on my To Do. ;)

When you initialize and load a Sentry SDK that supports tracing, it will automatically instrument parts of your running application, such as function calls and network operations. Instrumenting a database call could entail these three steps or subroutines:

1. Calling a function to compose a database query
2. Sending a query to a database
3. Receiving and transforming results

> Each of these subroutines take some time to perform (no matter how fast they could run). Sentry records these subroutines as a unit of work in the form of **spans.** Sentry can also attach useful information to spans, such as tags, additional contextual data, and a status to indicate if the subroutine failed or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of these subroutines take some time to perform (no matter how fast they could run). Sentry records these subroutines as a unit of work in the form of **spans**. Sentry can also attach useful information to spans, such as tags, additional contextual data, and a status to indicate if the subroutine failed or not.
```

### Orphan Spans

Orphan spans refer to spans that exist or are visible, but their parent spans are not visible or are not within Sentry's database. This could imply a bug in the Sentry application. If you're confident about this, please contact support: [support@sentry.io](mailto:support@sentry.io)

Another reason could include that instrumented spans may not make it back to Sentry for processing. As an example, let us refer back to our earlier example of the web application consisting of:

- Frontend (Single-Page Application)
- Backend
- Search Service
- Cache Service

Instrumented spans in each component are sent back to Sentry for processing. However, a server in the backend component could suffer from network connectivity loss, and the spans may not have made it back to Sentry. This would indicate a "hole" within this specific trace. The collected spans within the Search Service would be descendants of a span (for example, a search service call) within the Backend component, and thus the top-level span of the collective Search Service spans is referred to as an orphan span.

## Transactions

> ![DON%20T%20Add%20content%20to%20this%20FINAL%20Draft%20Tracing%20for%20/Anatomy-of-transaction.png](DON%20T%20Add%20content%20to%20this%20FINAL%20Draft%20Tracing%20for%20/Anatomy-of-transaction.png)

Reviewer 2: The images paths here and elsewhere look 🐟 y

Author: Yeah, that's the Notion translation. This is on my ToDo to update. ;)

Sampling enables you to collect traces on a subset of your traffic and extrapolate to the total volume. Furthermore, enabling sampling allows you to control the volume of data you send to Sentry and lets you better manage your costs. If you don't have a good understanding of what sampling rate to choose, we recommend you start low and gradually increase the sampling rate as you learn more about your traffic patterns and volume.

When you have multiple projects collecting APM data, Sentry utilizes 'head-based' sampling to ensure that once a sampling decision has been made, that decision is propagated to each application or project involved in the transaction. If your applications have multiple entry points, you should aim to choose consistent sampling rates. Choosing different sampling rates can bias your results. Sentry does not support 'tail-based' sampling at this time.

If you enable APM collection for a large portion of your traffic, you may exceed your organization's [Quotas and Rate Limits](https://docs.sentry.io/accounts/quotas/).

## Setting Up Tracing

[ALERT BOX: Supported SDKs:

> - JavaScript Browser

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- JavaScript Browser ≥ 5.13.0
```

- Node.js
- Python version ≥ 0.11.2 ]

Getting started with Sentry's APM features is a three step process. If you've already created a Sentry account and installed an SDK, skip to step 2a:

1. [Sign up for an account](https://sentry.io/signup/)
2. [Install your SDK](https://docs.sentry.io/error-reporting/quickstart/?platform=browser#pick-a-client-integration)

    2a. Add APM integration

        code snippet for customers to get started with APM

    2b. Configure instrumentation, etc.

3. [Configure](https://docs.sentry.io/error-reporting/quickstart/?platform=browser#configure-the-sdk) SDK

> 

Author: ^ @bowencai8 & @alberto what do you think?

> 

Reviewer 4: I don't mind; I think it makes sense. 

The SDK team would be better suited to provide the content for each of the language/platform.

> 

Author: @rhcarvalho and @lobsterkatie, do either of you have the bandwidth to provide content for this by Weds the 11th?

> ### Python

Author: This is dependent on time. :) If you, @dashed, or @markstory, or someone else have the bandwidth to add the dropdown, I think it's a good idea.

> ### Python

Reviewer 4: We're tracking this on Asana.

To send any traces, set the `traces_sample_rate`to a nonzero value. The following configuration will capture 10% of all your transactions:

    import sentry_sdk
        

>     sentry_sdk.init("___PUBLIC_DSN___", traces_sample_rate=0.1)

Reviewer 3: I can't comment this as a suggestion but we need to wrap all code examples in the correct code block

with 3 backticks and language as we have in the rest of all our docs.

Author: @HazAT Yep! I'll go back and do those today. The Notion translation to Markdown leaves out the backtics for some reason.

**Automating Traces**

Many integrations for popular frameworks automatically capture traces. If you already have any of the following frameworks set up for error reporting, you will start to see traces immediately:

- All WSGI-based frameworks (Django, Flask, Pyramid, Falcon, Bottle)
- Celery
- Redis Queue (RQ)

Spans are available for the following operations within a transaction:

- Database that uses SQLAlchemy or the Django ORM
- HTTP requests made with `requests` or the stdlib

> - Spawned subprocesses

Reviewer: Can you add this (lmk if it needs clarification):

>If you want to automatically enable all relevant transactions, you can do:

```python
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init("___PUBLIC_DSN___", _experiments={"auto_enabling_integrations": True})
```

We want to mark this as alpha-in-alpha somehow... it's an alternative way of instrumentation that spawned as an experiment out of the APM alpha.

      processItem(item).then(() => {
        transaction.finish()
      })

**Adding additional Spans to the transaction**

The next example is called in the `processItem` function from the code snippet above. Our SDK can determine if there is a current open `transaction` and add all newly created spans as child operations to the `transaction`. Keep in mind; each individual span also needs to be finished; otherwise, it will not show up in the `transaction`.

    function processItem(item, transaction) {
      const span = transaction.child({ op: "http", description: "GET /" })
    
      return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        http.get(`/items/${item.id}`, (response) => {
          response.on('data', () => {});
          response.on('end', () => {
            span.setTag("http.status_code", response.statusCode);
            span.setData("http.foobarsessionid", getFoobarSessionid(response));
            span.finish();
            resolve(response);
          });
        });
      });
    }

### Node.js

To use our APM features, you need to use a beta release.

    $ npm install @sentry/node@5.10.0-rc.0

>     $ npm install @sentry/apm@5.10.0-rc.0

Reviewer 3: Same here, add 3 backticks + bash

```suggestion
    $ npm install @sentry/node
    $ npm install @sentry/apm
```

    const app = express();
    
    // RequestHandler creates a separate execution-context using domains, so that every transaction/span/breadcrumb has it's own Hub to be attached to
    app.use(Sentry.Handlers.requestHandler());
    // TracingHandler creates a tracing for every incoming request
    app.use(Sentry.Handlers.tracingHandler());
    
    // the rest of your app
    
    app.use(Sentry.Handlers.errorHandler());
    app.listen(3000);

The following operations have span capabilities within a transaction:

- HTTP requests made with `request` or `get` calls using native `http` and `https` modules
- Middlewares (Express.js only)

To enable them:

    $ npm install @sentry/integrations@5.8.0-beta.0

    const Sentry = require("@sentry/node");
    const Integrations = require("@sentry/integrations");
    const express = require("express");
    const app = express();
    
    Sentry.init({
      dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
      tracesSampleRate: 0.1,
      integrations: [
        // enable HTTP calls tracing
        new Sentry.Integrations.Http({ tracing: true }),
        // enable Express.js middleware tracing
        new Integrations.Express({ app })
      ],

>     });

Reviewer 3: Wrap this in 3 backticks + javascript
But this code also needs changes, this is also a todo we need to check if this is true

```suggestion
    const Sentry = require("@sentry/node");
    const Apm = require("@sentry/apm");
    const express = require("express");
    const app = express();
    
    Sentry.init({
      dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
      tracesSampleRate: 0.1,
      integrations: [
        // enable HTTP calls tracing
        new Sentry.Integrations.Http({ tracing: true }),
        // enable Express.js middleware tracing
        new Apm.Integrations.Express({ app })
      ],
    });
```

Author: @HazAT Okay. Let me know when there's a new code example.

[{% asset apm/tracing-diagram.png alt="Diagram illustrating how a trace is composed of multiple transactions." %}]({% asset apm/tracing-diagram.png @path %})

Each [trace]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#trace) has a marker called a `trace_id`. Trace IDs are pseudorandom fixed length of alphanumeric character sequences.

By collecting traces of your users as they use your applications, you can begin to reveal some insights such as:

- Investigate and debug what occurred for a specific error event, or issue
- What conditions are causing bottlenecks or latency issues in the application
- Which endpoints or operations consume the most time

### Trace Propagation Model

Referring back to our earlier example of the web application consisting of these high-level components:

- Frontend (Single-Page Application)
- Backend
- Background Queue
- Notification Job

> A trace [propagates]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#propagation) first from the frontend, then the backend, and later to the background queue or notification job. Collected [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) from each component are sent back to Sentry asynchronously and independently. Instrumented spans received from one component aren't forwarded to the next component.

Reviewer 4: @MimiDumpling would it be a good idea if we mention orphan/stray spans in a sentence in this section? I can provide a brief blurb.

Reviewer 4: @MimiDumpling that works 👍

## Transactions

[{% asset apm/anatomy-of-transaction.png alt="Diagram illustrating how a transaction is composed of many spans." %}]({% asset apm/anatomy-of-transaction.png @path %})

Traces in Sentry are segmented into pieces of [**spans**]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) called [**transactions**]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction). When instrumenting the application with tracing, collected spans are grouped within an encompassing top-level span called the **transaction span**. This notion of a transaction is specific to Sentry.

If you are collecting transactions from more than a single machine, you will likely encounter [**clock skew**]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#clock-skew).

## Sampling Transactions

> **We strongly recommend sampling your transactions.**

Reviewer 4: @MimiDumpling might be worth turning this line into an alert box.

Author: @dashed I try to be minimalistic with alert boxes or else they become too noisy.

Author: I'll also bold another line in the following paragraph. Hopefully that'll hit the message home.

> When you enable sampling for APM events in Sentry, you choose a percentage of collected transactions to send to Sentry. For example, if you had an endpoint that received 1000 requests per minute, a sampling rate of 0.25 would result in 250 transactions (25%) being sent to Sentry.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When you enable sampling for transaction events in Sentry, you choose a percentage of collected transactions to send to Sentry. For example, if you had an endpoint that received 1000 requests per minute, a sampling rate of 0.25 would result in 250 transactions (25%) being sent to Sentry.
```

> Sampling enables you to collect traces on a subset of your traffic and extrapolate to the total volume. Furthermore, enabling sampling allows you to control the volume of data you send to Sentry and lets you better manage your costs. If you don't have a good understanding of what sampling rate to choose, we recommend you start low and gradually increase the sampling rate as you learn more about your traffic patterns and volume.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sampling enables you to collect traces on a subset of your traffic and extrapolate to the total volume. Furthermore, enabling sampling allows you to control the volume of data you send to Sentry and lets you better manage your costs. If you don't have a good understanding of what sampling rate to choose, we recommend you start with a low value, and gradually increase the sampling rate as you learn more about your traffic patterns and volume.
```

> When you have multiple projects collecting APM data, Sentry utilizes "head-based" sampling to ensure that once a sampling decision has been made, that decision is propagated to each application or project involved in the [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction). If your applications have multiple entry points, you should aim to choose consistent sampling rates. Choosing different sampling rates can bias your results. Sentry does not support "tail-based" sampling at this time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When you have multiple projects collecting transaction events, Sentry utilizes "head-based" sampling to ensure that once a sampling decision has been made at the beginning of the trace (typically the initial transaction), that decision is propagated to each application or project involved in the [trace]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#trace). If your applications have multiple entry points, you should aim to choose consistent sampling rates. Choosing different sampling rates can bias your results. Sentry does not support "tail-based" sampling at this time.
```

If you enable APM collection for a large portion of your traffic, you may exceed your organization's [Quotas and Rate Limits]({%- link _documentation/accounts/quotas.md -%}).

## Setting Up Tracing

{% capture __alert_content -%}
Sentry's Application Performance Monitoring (APM) features are currently in beta. For more details about APM access, feel free to reach out at [https://sentry.io/for/apm/](https://sentry.io/for/apm/).

Supported SDKs for Tracing:
- JavaScript Browser ≥ 5.13.0
- Node.js
- Python version ≥ 0.11.2

{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
    title="Note"
    content=__alert_content
    level="warning"
%}

### Python

To send any traces, set the `traces_sample_rate` to a nonzero value. The following configuration will capture 10% of all your transactions:

```python
import sentry_sdk
    
sentry_sdk.init("___PUBLIC_DSN___", traces_sample_rate=0.1)
```

> **Automating Traces**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Automatic Instrumentation**
```

@HazAT @rhcarvalho @untitaker wondering if this is the better title?

Reviewer 5: IMHO yes, "Automatic" or "Automated" Instrumentation sounds better

Many integrations for popular frameworks automatically capture traces. If you already have any of the following frameworks set up for Sentry error reporting, you will start to see traces immediately:

- All WSGI-based frameworks (Django, Flask, Pyramid, Falcon, Bottle)
- Celery
- Redis Queue (RQ)

> [Spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) are available for the following operations within a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) are instrumented for the following operations within a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction):
```

- Database that uses SQLAlchemy or the Django ORM
- HTTP requests made with `requests` or the `stdlib`
- Spawned subprocesses

> If you want to enable all relevant transactions automatically, you can use this alternative (currently in alpha):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to enable all relevant transactions automatically, you can use this alternative configuration (currently in alpha):
```

```python
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init("___PUBLIC_DSN___", _experiments={"auto_enabling_integrations": True})
```

> **Managing Transactions**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Manual Instrumentation**
```

> Let’s say you want to create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) for an expensive operation (for example, `process_item`) and send the result to Sentry:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To manually instrument certain regions of your code, you can create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) to capture them. 

The following example creates a transaction for a scope that contains an expensive operation (for example, `process_item`), and sends the result to Sentry:
```

```python
import sentry_sdk

while True:
  item = get_from_queue()

  with sentry_sdk.start_span(op="task", transaction=item.get_transaction()):
      # process_item may create more spans internally (see next examples)
      process_item(item)
```

**Adding More Spans to the Transaction**

> The next example is called in the `process_item` function from the code snippet above. Our SDK can determine if there is a current open `transaction` and add all newly created [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) as child operations to the `transaction`. Keep in mind; each individual span also needs to be finished; otherwise, it will not show up in the `transaction`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The next example contains the implementation of the hypothetical `process_item` function called from the code snippet in the previous section. Our SDK can determine if there is a current open `transaction` and add all newly created [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) as child operations to the `transaction`. Keep in mind that each individual span also needs to be manually finished; otherwise, spans will not show up in the `transaction`.
```

Reviewer 4: @untitaker @HazAT @rhcarvalho Spans don't need to be explicitly finished in the Python SDK as right? Since they're managed using the `with` keyword in Python.

These docs suggests otherwise.

Reviewer 5: Indeed if using the `with` keyword they're close when exiting the block.

We just need to stay clear that `with` blocks is not the only way.

Author: I made the change that Alberto suggested above. Is there more content I should be adding in regards to `with` blocks? @rhcarvalho

You can choose the value of `op` and `description`.

```python
import sentry_sdk

with sentry_sdk.start_span(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
    response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
    span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
    span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())

> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```python
import sentry_sdk

def process_item(item):
    
    # omitted code...

    with sentry_sdk.start_span(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
        response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
        span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
        span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())
```
```

### JavaScript

> To access our APM features, you need to use a beta release.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To access our tracing features, you will need to install our APM integration:
```

@HazAT is this still a beta release?

```bash
$ npm install @sentry/browser
$ npm install @sentry/apm
```

**Sending Traces**

Tracing resides in the `@sentry/apm` package. You can add it to your `Sentry.init` call:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/browser';
import { Integrations as ApmIntegrations } from '@sentry/apm';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: '___PUBLIC_DSN___',
  integrations: [
    new ApmIntegrations.Tracing(),
  ],
});
```

> You can pass a lot of different options to tracing, but it comes with reasonable defaults out of the box. You'll receive:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can pass a lot of different options to tracing, but it comes with reasonable defaults out of the box.

[Spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) are instrumented for the following operations within a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction):
```

- A [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) for every page load
- All XHR/fetch requests as spans

> **Using Tracing Integration for Manual Tracing**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Using Tracing Integration for Manual Instrumentation**
```

> Tracing will create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) on page load by default; all [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) that are started will be attached to it. Also, tracing will finish the transaction after the default timeout of 500ms of inactivity. Inactivity is if there are no pending XHR/fetch requests. If you want to extend it by adding spans to the transaction, here is an example of how you could profile a React component:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Tracing will create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) on page load by default; all [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) that are created will be attached to it. Also, tracing will finish the transaction after the default timeout of 500ms of inactivity. The page is considered inactive if there are no pending XHR/fetch requests. If you want to extend the transaction's lifetime beyond 500ms, you can do so by adding more spans to the transaction. The following is an example of how you could profile a React component:
```

```javascript
// This line starts an activity (and creates a span).
// As long as you don't pop the activity, the transaction will not be finished and therefore not sent to Sentry.
// If you do not want to create a span out of an activity, just don't provide the second arg.

> const activity = ApmIntegrations.Tracing.pushActivity(displayName, {

Reviewer 4: @HazAT do we need docs to explain this concept of "activity" further?

Author: ^ @HazAT ?

Reviewer 4: @MimiDumpling I think it should be fine omitting this for this PR. Would it be fine if we create an Asana task to track this?

        data: {},
        op: 'react',
        description: `<${displayName}>`,
});

// Sometime later ...
// When we pop the activity, the Integration will finish the span and after the timeout finish the transaction and send it to Sentry
Integrations.ApmIntegrations.popActivity(activity);
```

> **Managing Transactions**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Manual Transactions**
```

> Let’s say you want to create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) for an expensive operation (for example, `processItem`) and send the result to Sentry:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To manually instrument certain regions of your code, you can create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) to capture them. 

The following example creates a transaction for a scope that contains an expensive operation (for example, `process_item`), and sends the result to Sentry:
```

```javascript
const transaction = Sentry.getCurrentHub().startSpan({ op: "task",  transaction: item.getTransaction() })
  // processItem may create more spans internally (see next example)
  processItem(item).then(() => {
    transaction.finish()
  })
```

**Adding Additional Spans to the Transaction**

> The next example is called in the `processItem` function from the code snippet above. Our SDK can determine if there is a current open `transaction` and add all newly created [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) as child operations to the `transaction`. Keep in mind; each individual span also needs to be finished; otherwise, it will not show up in the `transaction`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The next example contains the implementation of the hypothetical `processItem ` function called from the code snippet in the previous section. Our SDK can determine if there is a current open `transaction` and add all newly created [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) as child operations to the `transaction`. Keep in mind that each individual span also needs to be manually finished; otherwise, spans will not show up in the `transaction`.
```

```javascript
function processItem(item, transaction) {
  const span = transaction.child({ op: "http", description: "GET /" })

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    http.get(`/items/${item.id}`, (response) => {
      response.on('data', () => {});
      response.on('end', () => {
        span.setTag("http.status_code", response.statusCode);
        span.setData("http.foobarsessionid", getFoobarSessionid(response));
        span.finish();
        resolve(response);
      });
    });
  });
}
```

### Node.js

> To access our APM features, you need to use a beta release.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To access our tracing features, you will need to install our APM integration:
```

```bash
$ npm install @sentry/node
$ npm install @sentry/apm
```

**Sending Traces**

To send any traces, set the `tracesSampleRate` to a nonzero value. The following configuration will capture 10% of all your transactions:

```javascript
const Sentry = require("@sentry/node");
const Apm = require("@sentry/apm"); // This is required since it patches functions on the hub

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  tracesSampleRate: 0.1
});
```

> **Automating Traces**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Automatic Instrumentation**
```

It’s possible to add tracing to all popular frameworks; however, we provide pre-written handlers only for Express.js.

```javascript
const Sentry = require("@sentry/node");
const express = require("express");
const app = express();

// RequestHandler creates a separate execution-context using domains, so that every transaction/span/breadcrumb has it's own Hub to be attached to
app.use(Sentry.Handlers.requestHandler());
// TracingHandler creates a tracing for every incoming request
app.use(Sentry.Handlers.tracingHandler());

// the rest of your app

app.use(Sentry.Handlers.errorHandler());
app.listen(3000);
```

> The following operations have [span]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) capabilities within a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following operations have [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) automatically generated and attached to a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction):
```

- HTTP requests made with `request` or `get` calls using native `http` and `https` modules
- Middlewares (Express.js only)

To enable them:

```bash

> $ npm install @sentry/integrations@5.8.0-beta.0

Reviewer 4: @HazAT @kamilogorek Is this version accurate? v5.13.2 is already out http://npm.im/@sentry/integrations

Reviewer 6: It's definitely out of date. It shouldn't use a hardcoded version. There's a tag for that: `@sentry/integrations@{% sdk_version sentry.javascript.browser %}`

---
title: Distributed Tracing
sidebar_order: 0
---

{% capture __alert_content -%}

> Sentry's Application Performance Monitoring (APM) features are currently in beta. For more details about APM access, feel free to reach out at [https://sentry.io/for/apm/](https://sentry.io/for/apm/).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Sentry's Performance features are currently in beta. For more details about access to these features, feel free to reach out at [https://sentry.io/for/performance/](https://sentry.io/for/performance/)
```

When you have multiple projects collecting transaction events, Sentry utilizes "head-based" sampling to ensure that once a sampling decision has been made at the beginning of the trace (typically the initial transaction), that decision is propagated to each application or project involved in the [trace]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#trace). If your applications have multiple entry points, you should aim to choose consistent sampling rates. Choosing different sampling rates can bias your results. Sentry does not support "tail-based" sampling at this time.

If you enable APM collection for a large portion of your traffic, you may exceed your organization's [Quotas and Rate Limits]({%- link _documentation/accounts/quotas.md -%}).

## Setting Up Tracing

{% capture __alert_content -%}

> Sentry's Application Performance Monitoring (APM) features are currently in beta. For more details about APM access, feel free to reach out at [https://sentry.io/for/apm/](https://sentry.io/for/apm/).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Sentry's Performance features are currently in beta. For more details about access to these features, feel free to reach out at [https://sentry.io/for/performance/](https://sentry.io/for/performance/).
```

You can choose the value of `op` and `description`.

```python
import sentry_sdk

def process_item(item):
    
  # omitted code...
  with sentry_sdk.start_span(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
      response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
      span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
      span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())
```

### JavaScript

To access our tracing features, you will need to install our APM integration:

```bash
$ npm install @sentry/browser
$ npm install @sentry/apm
```

**Sending Traces**

Tracing resides in the `@sentry/apm` package. You can add it to your `Sentry.init` call:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/browser';
import { Integrations as ApmIntegrations } from '@sentry/apm';

Sentry.init({
  dsn: '___PUBLIC_DSN___',
  integrations: [
    new ApmIntegrations.Tracing(),
  ],
});
```

> You can pass a lot of different options to tracing, but it comes with reasonable defaults out of the box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can pass many different options to tracing, but it comes with reasonable defaults out of the box.
```

- A [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) for every page load
- All XHR/fetch requests as spans

**Using Tracing Integration for Manual Instrumentation**

Tracing will create a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction) on page load by default; all [spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) that are created will be attached to it. Also, tracing will finish the transaction after the default timeout of 500ms of inactivity. The page is considered inactive if there are no pending XHR/fetch requests. If you want to extend the transaction's lifetime beyond 500ms, you can do so by adding more spans to the transaction. The following is an example of how you could profile a React component:

```javascript
// This line starts an activity (and creates a span).
// As long as you don't pop the activity, the transaction will not be finished and therefore not sent to Sentry.
// If you do not want to create a span out of an activity, just don't provide the second arg.
const activity = ApmIntegrations.Tracing.pushActivity(displayName, {
        data: {},
        op: 'react',

>         description: `<${displayName}>`,

Author: @rhcarvalho do we want to add something about `autoPopAfter`? If so, will you provide the code example?

Reviewer 4: @kamilogorek @HazAT

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  tracesSampleRate: 0.1
});
```

**Automatic Instrumentation**

It’s possible to add tracing to all popular frameworks; however, we provide pre-written handlers only for Express.js.

```javascript
const Sentry = require("@sentry/node");
const express = require("express");
const app = express();

// RequestHandler creates a separate execution-context using domains, so that every transaction/span/breadcrumb has it's own Hub to be attached to
app.use(Sentry.Handlers.requestHandler());
// TracingHandler creates a tracing for every incoming request
app.use(Sentry.Handlers.tracingHandler());

// the rest of your app

app.use(Sentry.Handlers.errorHandler());
app.listen(3000);
```

[Spans]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#span) are instrumented for the following operations within a [transaction]({%- link _documentation/apm/apm-glossary.md -%}#transaction):

- HTTP requests made with `request` or `get` calls using native `http` and `https` modules
- Middlewares (Express.js only)

To enable them:

```bash
$ npm install @sentry/integrations@{% sdk_version sentry.javascript.browser %}
```

> ```javascript

Author: @HazAT is this code example up to date?

---
title: Distributed Tracing
sidebar_order: 1
---

[Alert Box: What plan APM is available on? ]

Enabling tracing data collection can augment your existing errors to answer any question or unknowns about your systems. Tracing also allows you to track critical metrics and service-level objectives (SLO) like throughput, latency, or apdex to build a complete monitoring solution to diagnose and measure your application health.

## Tracing & Distributed Tracing

Applications (for example, web applications) typically consist of interconnected applications/components (also called services). For instance, let us assume a modern web application could be composed of the following components separated by the network boundaries:

- Frontend (Single-Page Application)
- Backend
- Search Service

> - Cache Service

Author: @dashed Maybe we should have these match the diagram? So, it'll be:

- Frontend
- Backend
- Background Queue
- Notification Job

Reviewer 4: Yes! That's one of the fixes I wanted to suggest.

[{% asset apm/tracing-diagram.png alt="Diagram illustrating how a trace is composed of multiple transactions." %}]({% asset apm/tracing-diagram.png @path %})

Traces that start with the same set of API endpoint calls can potentially differ in terms of what code paths were executed. For example, an initial trace may result in a cache miss at the Cache Service, and a subsequent trace may include more information instrumented at the Cache Service. Although these two traces are similar, they are not identical.

Each trace has a marker called a `trace_id` . Trace IDs are pseudorandom fixed length of alphanumeric character sequences.

By collecting traces of your users as they use your applications, you can begin to reveal some insights such as:

- Investigate and debug what occurred for a specific error event, or issue
- What conditions are causing bottlenecks or latency issues in the application
- Which endpoints or operations consume the most time.

### Trace propagation model

Referring back to our earlier example of the web application consisting of these high-level components:

- Frontend (Single-Page Application)
- Backend
- Search Service

> - Cache Service

Author: @dashed same here. Maybe we should have these match the diagram.
